
September 13, 2013
Sorry for the long absence
I’ve been out of touch with reality for a while now. I stopped finding the time to update the blog a few weeks before I had to leave Spain sadly, but I will try to find time now to fill in all the blanks. 2 weeks in China will hopefully be an interesting change from all the Spanish stuff! 

I’m back in Australia now though and things are slowing down. I had to leave my girlfriend in China where she has herself a new job. It was a tough temporary goodbye.. actually, we promised ourselves that we wouldn’t actually say the words, ‘goodbye’, so it was more of a see you soon. It’s crunch time now. In these coming weeks, I need to decide where I want to live, where I want to work, and what things I am happy to live without for a while. Change is never easy and pro/con lists are subjective.

On another topic, here’s something interesting for anyone who wants to try new super-foods. The benefits of the underrated Aloe Vera. Check this video out: http://www.blinkx.com/watch-video/aloe-vera-top-10-reasons-to-drink-it2-flv/iO2mXWm2XxajKvHIP42VAg

Salud!

Posted in Travel | Tagged aloe vera, Australia, china | Leave a comment
July 18, 2013
San Fermin 2013 – Pamplona
San Fermín… where to start?

If the city of Pamplona were to be charged in a court of law for the neglect of the safety of its people during San Fermín, it would plead temporary insanity.

20130706_113455

Insanity… is a very fitting word for what goes on here. All of your common sense, hygiene, safety, ethics, sense of time and your stomach contents are heaved out of you and carelessly littered all over the alcohol and urine covered, sticky streets of Pamplona. I tried to see the point of it all, but in the end I just decided to go with a “what happens at San Fermín, stays in San Fermín” kind of attitude. It’s a ridiculous spectacle that you just cant help watching and participating in… all the while having a great time! You will definitely see some bizarre things though.

…I’ve seen borderless women getting mass-groped by inhebriated zombie men (and women alike).

San-Fermin-Festival-2011

…Men enraged like bulls they came to watch, floundering in trash and piss, breast-stroking through the mess, irritated that people are giving them strange looks.

…People in the street beyond the stage of toilet-hugging drunk, KO’d in broad daylight, 2 hours after San Fermín officially started. Note: It’s remarkable watching an ambulance try to swim its way through the thousands of deaf, blind-drunk zombies.

… Fresh youngsters straight out of primary school carrying on mild conversation, pausing for the occasional vomit between words.

…Parks and gutters littered with trash (and people) spending the night (or the day, time is irrelevant here). In fact, if you don’t organise your accommodation at least a couple of months before the festival begins, you can expect to be sleeping in the parks, the gutters, ATM rooms or nestling yourself against the prickly warmth of the bushes.

These two mummies caught our eye, they found themselves quite a tranquil location if you can believe it.

20130707_091938

…I’ve also seen a look in someone’s eyes so vacant, that I likened it to a wax figurine. This fellow was so truly sloshed and disorientated that the combination of the creepy, hollow stare and broken voice, chanting the same bloody tune over and over again with no friends around made something inside of me say, “Hmm, this guy needs a blanket, a hot cup of coco and a good nap… followed by a fatherly wallop with the leather belt.”

Not to be a complete and utter buzz-kill, I’ll quit complaining like an old fart and try to start talking about the good things. If I fail, don’t blame me… it is how it is. Paso lo que paso. I guess what I’m saying is, San Fermín is most definitely not a party for the faint hearted and you’ll probably compromise your dignity after a few drinks.

Nevertheless, we had a smashing time!!

Our experience!

We had a great time walking to and fro through Pamplona witnessing the spectacle of tens of thousands of drunkards, the traditional bands, drowning in the sea of people waiting for the Chupinazo that you will learn about in a moment. In hindsight, I wouldn’t advise wading into the Chupinazo actually as our experience was something like this: Imagine you are surrounded by wet people, the stench of B.O, alcohol and other substances assaulting your nose, being pushed and pulled inside the ebb and flow of the masses, showered – or a more fitting word – riot-hosed in wine, water and some yellow paste I could only guess was some kind of curry paste, your feet being mercilessly stomped on, awkwardly tripping over anything and everything, trying not to break your arms in between people and so on and so forth. Our friends were smart enough to stay out, but being curious tourists, we dove in head-first. The Chupinazo is the official commencement of San Fermin with a lone firework being lit at 12:00pm in Plaza Consistorial on July 6th. You should totally go!

Anyway, it was hot, stinky and just fantastic. I don’t know why, but the mess as a whole is a very satisfying experience. By the way, Pamplona is beautiful.

20130707_123544

Continuing on from the Chupinazo, we waited for a friend of a friend of ours whilst watching the traditional bands, singing along with the San Fermin anthems. Whilst waiting, we got to sample a truly hopeless drunk (insert expletives) who tried to direct my phone camera at himself whilst I was filming the band, completely misjudging the weight of his useless appendages and tossing the phone out of my hands. Luckily I caught it…

Then we had a nice quiet beer at our friends house before heading to our rented flat to have a quick shower and prepare for the evening. We rented one of these apartment sharing deals where you just pay a house-owner a bit of cash in return for accommodation. I won’t go into that much detail, but the 9 year old daughter seemed to be calling the shots, messaging us her mandate at the most inconvenient of times.

After a little siesta, we sped over to the commencement of the nightly fireworks competition. But first, we had to conduct negotiations over how many kebabs to buy with one of our paralytic friends over the phone, which turned out to be a hilarious situation… We also dealt with constant reception outages because of the thousands of people trying to call each other (and find each other) every single moment. Our last effort was trying to find our plot in front of the fireworks in the red and white sea of where’s wally look-a-likes without any method of communication. A miracle happened; amongst the tens of thousands of people wearing the exact same clothes, one of our friends magically appeared in front of us showing us to our spot!1016712_614929801865065_955970964_n

The fireworks were marvelous and being in between them and the façades of the buildings behind us gave us twice the oomph in our chests. When they finished, we hit the town.

I don’t know how pub-crawl guides do their job without going loco. It took us 2 hours to walk 1 kilometre. I don’t think it would have been such a ridiculous idea to bloody handcuff everyone together! After a couple of hours of people watching, bar hopping and general sight seeing, we went home for 3 hours sleep. We had to wake up at 5:15AM to get to the Bullfighting ring and get our free tickets. Apparently if you get there before 6:30AM you get in for free.

Somehow we overslept about 45 minutes. We hurriedly got ready, taking a cab as close to the ring as possible. It was going to be worth it because the tickets would be free. We cued up, busting with excitement. Our first ever time inside a bullfighting ring, FREE! 3rd in line, 2nd in line, then it was us! The ticketmaster broke us the sad news that the tickets weren’t free because it was the first official day of San Fermin… bugger… so we paid up and plodded along to our luckily shaded seats. We sat down and waited until 8am, the commencement of the running.

20130707_081658

I have put together a little movie of video clips I took around San Fermin for the first day, check it out, it’s an insiders view!



Not surprisingly, the running is really amazing.  This was the ‘worst’ run that occurred with goring’s and a mass blockage at the ring… scary stuff. I think it was 3 gored and 21 hospitalized.



But, you have to be crazy to run in front of those things. Just look at this poor guy.



Apparently there were two Aussie girls who got impaled this year, increasing the number of female impalings from 1 to 3. Poor girls… Gladly they are in full recovery. GO AUSSIES!

And then the younger bulls (Vaquillos) are released into the ring to play… I just had to make another video about it, it was my favourite bit! They get to exact some revenge on the humans for the cruelty against them… Watch for the drunk with the bag get nailed three times, showing some crack for us. Also listen for the crowd chanting “Hijo de puta” which means “Son of a bitch” when somebody mistreats the vaquillo either by pulling the horns or tail. Anyway, enjoy!



About the festival

The festival commences on July 7 and has its very traditional origins rooted in the 14th Century. It is essentially two festivals in one, the religious ceremonies honouring Saint Fermín (originally held on Oct. 10) and the period of commercial fairs held in the beginning of summer. San Fermínes was in fact moved from October 10 to coincide with those commercial fairs because of the better weather. It was only then that it became widely considered that San Fermínes officially began in 1591.

It wasn’t until later when the cattle merchants brought their stock to the city that bullfighting was introduced. Later in the 17th century, bull running appears.

The program today consists of the:

Chupinazo

On July 6at 12:00PM an individual chosen by the Mayor of Pamplona sets off the pyrotechnics that signify the official beginning of San Fermín

Saint Fermín procession

The religious portion of the festival is held on July 7 and is regarded as the most key day of the festival. Thousands of people accompany the 15th century statue of Saint Fermín through the old part of Pamplona. It is a fascinating display of dancers, entertainers as well as the ‘Gigantes’, the gigantic wooden framed and papier-mâché puppet figures controlled by the inside.

Struendo

“El Struendo” otherwise known as “The Roar” has been purposely left out of the official program for crowd management reasons. People gather at 11:59PM on a random weekday at the Town Hall and make as much noise as they possibly can until they can’t stand up anymore.

Pobre de mí

9 days of partying takes its toll. On the 14th of July at midnight, the valiant party-goers of Pamplona meet in the Townhall Plaza and sing together the traditional mournful notes of Pobre de Mí (‘Poor Me’), by candlelight. The city mayor officially ends the festival with the participants lighting a candle and removing their red handkerchief.

Running of the bulls

The “Encierro” commences at 8am from July 7 – 14. Hundreds of people desperately try to not get bucked by the 6, 500-800Kg bulls bearing down on them through the 825-meter section of narrow streets from the old part of Pamplona and eventually entering the bull-fighting ring at the end, the Plaza del Toros. It goes without saying, it’s dangerous. Since its beginning, 15 people have been killed at 300 hospitalized.

After the end of the run, young cows with wrapped horns are released in the bullring and toss the participants, to the amusement of the crowd. Occasionally a second mature bull will be released to serve two purposes; 1, to scare the pants off the unwitting participants focusing on the young bull and 2, to lead the younger bull out of the ring.

Giants and big-heads parade

Every day, during the morning, there is a parade of gigantes y cabezudos (in English giants and big-heads respectively), with the giants figures being more than 150 years old. It must get very hot inside those big heads…

Traditional sports

There are many traditional sports competitions held every morning in the “Plaza de los Fueros”, such as stone lifting, wood cutting, or hay bale lifting.

Fireworks

Fireworks competitions are held nightly at 11:00pm and have been known to occur as far back as 1595. It is a spectacular event and the position of the crowd allows them to feel every boom twice with the fireworks in front and the building façade behind. Get there quick or you won’t find a good seat

Bullfight

Although I didn’t get to stick around and watch the bullfights, I found a very good description of a bullfight to entice your imagination from here.

The program doesn’t include one other spectacle that I was unfortunate enough to miss as well. There are videos circulating around the internet of people faith-jumping from the fountains in the city expecting to be caught by the crowd underneath them. Watch the video:



Anything for a rush I suppose!

So far we’ve covered our experience, the program, a few little horrors, but I left out a very important part of our story… Pampi – the sweet melon that we lugged all the way from Barcelona, witnessing San Fermín in it’s splendor before miraculously making its back to Barcelona, all in one juicy piece (but not for long).

pampi

R.I.P Pampi

So I hope you enjoyed my piece on San Fermín, and I hope I haven’t put you off it. All of the negatives are greatly outweighed by the whole experience itself. If you go and you don’t find it to your expectations, or you have a complete disaster, I’ll give you your money back!



Related articles
First 4 gorings Spain’s San Fermin bull runs (utsandiego.com)
Photos: The San Fermin Bull-running Festival – ABC News (abcnews.go.com)
San Fermin 2013: Four gored in notorious Pamplona bull-run – incredible pictures (mirror.co.uk)
San Fermin festival 2013: Running of the Bulls (boston.com)
Posted in Travel | Tagged Chupinazo, Encierro, Pamplona, Running of the Bulls, San Fermín, Spain, Spanish Fighting Bull | 4 Comments
July 5, 2013
Things to do in GRACIA: the real Catalan neighborhood
Reblogged from:

Things to do in GRACIA: the real Catalan neighborhood.

Things to do in GRACIA: the real Catalan neighborhood
Posted on July 1, 2013
Gracia is another unique and vibrant neighborhood of Barcelona, which actually was an independent town until late 19th century. This independent spirit still resists and the population of the town, a mix of elderly Catalan, young people and bohemian artists, consider itself as being from Gracia, not from Barcelona.

The neighborhood is both trendy and traditional, which creates a very special atmosphere where you will find at same time art galleries and authentic Spanish shops, hipster bars and traditional Catalan café. Moreover, Gracia is a quiet, not very touristic area, perfect for discovering a new perspective over Barcelona.

Gracia is famous for its festival, Festa Major de Gracia, which lengths 5 days in August and consists in a street decoration contest that resident takes very seriously. The result is often very spectacular and the streets get even more entertaining at night.

The area is also renowned for its numerous squares all over the district, giving it a real Catalan feeling, with kids playing ball games, teenager skating, parents reading books while enjoying the sun or older people chatting around a good coffee. Placa del Sol is probably the most famous one with its many terraces. This is also the place where people like to meet at night to have a drink and some funny time.



Placa de la Vila de Gracia is another cool one and our favorite, more family friendly, closed to Passeig de Gracia where you can enjoy the sun, good food in the restaurant around and some live music by local artists if you are lucky!

SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC

The third square we want to share with you is Placa de la Virreina, more shadowed under the trees, home of Sant Joan Church and its colored façade, where you could also enjoy some nice tapas in the cafes around.

SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC

Gracia is also a place to discover some amazing Catalan architecture with, for example, Casa Vicens on Carrer de les Carolines, UNESCO World Heritage Site building from 1889 created by Gaudi for industrialist Manuel Vicens. Even if the inside is not opened to public, the outside of the less visited Gaudi’s creation is worth the visit as the shows the artist’s passion for colors.

SONY DSC SONY DSC

A few meters away, after having crossed Carrer Gran de Gracia, you will find one of most prestigious theatres in Spain: Teatre Lliure which produces its own performance along with exhibiting local artists. Definitely one of the best places to enjoy theatrical Catalan culture.

SONY DSC

It could also happen that you want to see movie while you are in Barcelona… If so, Cines Verdi is the place for you! This multi-screen cinema displays movies in original languages with subs and in general has a refined selection of local and international movies.

SONY DSC

We hope you will enjoy your journey through Gracia!

Here are some more pictures of the area…

SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC SONY DSC

Posted in Travel | Tagged Barcelona, Carrer Gran de Gràcia Barcelona, Casa Vicens, Catalan language, catalonia, catalunya, Culture, Gaudi, Gracia, Spain, travel, World Heritage Site | Leave a comment
July 4, 2013
A – Muse – ing Night!
Lame overused pun, I know…

I was lucky enough to be surprised by my girlfriend with a chance to be treated to seeing Muse live in the Olympic Stadium in Barcelona, it was fantastic!

I know what gave Mar the idea as well. I have a new game/program that lets me plug in my guitar and play along with songs to the exact note, effectively learning the song as well as having fun (Rocksmith). I repeatedly played the Muse songs on there and I think Mar took a hint and started scheming… A very concerted effort on her part later, and we were seeing them LIVE!

Sorry about the shaky beginnings!

My personal favourite: Plug in baby


The immense: Our time is running out


The program and the stage was an explosive presence indeed. Gargantuan towers of flame, seizure inducing multicoloured lights and lazers, utterly epic visuals and large props of what appeared to be Neurons. We were also treated to a surprise appearance by dancing, animated bobble-heads of David Cameron, President Obama and Paul McCartney! This was my first big ‘”pop” concert so it was pretty neat. I am near disbelief I haven’t bothered to see more… Well, we learn from our mistakes.

The overall theme I can only guess would have been rebellion against the negative effects of capitalism and too much money in the hands of people who can’t control it, and overtones of empowerment for the young generation and cultivation of the mind. Supposedly, their new album is about physics, although I think there’s a little bit more going on as the theatrics suggest.

Firstly we’re shown a video in which an overweight, greedy wall-streeter at his desk begins to pull out his hair as he witnesses the stock market tumble. He then stumbles onto the stage, ripping and tossing “Muse-money” away, eventually walking to the end of the T shaped stage in the middle of the crowd and crumpling into a convulsing heap and dying.

Shortly afterwards a depressed oil-broker, after screaming on the phone about the plummeting price of oil, proceeded to end herself in a different fashion, this time ejecting some of her attire… kind of like an enthusiastic stripper… before drowning herself with fuel from a gas-pump and in a gargling heap. A bit over the top… but cool! I saw a lot of people in their suits not really getting the message thrown at them…

I can’t help but think that Muse has become so big and famous that they’re shifting the balance from musicians to show-men now. But hey, I’m not complaining; just an observation!

Nearing the end of the show, after releasing the killer dub-step robot, the band lowered their pace and released an illuminated hot air balloon in the shape of a light-bulb and floated it across the cloud, finally (and most unexpectedly) releasing a somersaulting, tumbling winged angel, emptying a seemingly never-ending supply of that ‘Muse money ‘ that I mentioned before on the crowd. One of our friends in the mosh-pit caught a few:

images

What was really great was seeing the sea of people jumping in unison with their arms rocking out. How can you not with their massive wall of sound.

We had a great time, and thank you Mar for being awesome!

Posted in Music | Tagged Barcelona, live music, Matthew Bellamy, Muse, music, Plug In Baby, Time Is Running Out (Muse song) | 1 Comment
June 21, 2013
Paradise found: Koh Rong Samloem
Great review of Koh Rong Samloem, the Cambodian island getaway!

ccarty85's avatarOur travels through Asia

The last time we were able to walk down a sandy beach and gaze across the blue ocean was in Goa, India. If you’ve read that post, then you’ll realise why why weren’t so impressed with that place. On the other hand, the beach itself was dreamy, and that was something we definitely missed. Our beach shorts and bikinis were repacked to the top of our bags and we set off for Sihanoukville; again by bus.

5 hours later and after more never ending Cambodian musical films, we reached the outskirts of Sihanoukville (named after king Sihanouk). Unfortunately, we were dropped about 3km out of the center, and being midday, the sun was way too hot for us to walk it. The haggling began. After attracting a crowd of tuk tuk drivers who all wanted us (we felt so special!), we agreed on a price and actually got a…

View original post 1,392 more words

Posted in Travel | Leave a comment
June 18, 2013
Correfoc: Els Diables – fire and mischief in Catalunya, Spain
The Correfoc, or “Fire Runs” parade was one of the most captivating and thrilling Catalan festivals that I’ve come across so far. It came with it, a touch of the demonic.

What it's like to be underneath one of these
What it’s like to be underneath one of these

In an atmosphere of thunder rumbling through streets heavily laden with smoke, one gets an odd compulsion to do some pretty wild things. Brave individuals with their faces masked dance underneath white-hot, frantically spinning firecrackers held above the heads of the mad dancing demons, trying not to be touched by the rain of blinding sparks. They then reach the inner eye of the firestorm, eagerly anticipating the ear-piercing crack the firecracker releases before fizzling out. It is a brutal attack on all the senses.


Smoke, the smell of firecrackers, blindingly dangerous sparks and the loud cracks of whatever are at the end of those fuses. That’s what we’re in store for.

Earlier when we were having a nice, calm strawberry juice with some friends, our ears perked up to the sound of whistles like falling bombs echoing throughout the streets of Gracia. Mar, excited, said to me “Ahh it’s the Correfocs!! We have to go see them!” So we hustled back home to take some beers and chips to enjoy the parade.

Diablas getting ready for their final hurrah
Diables getting ready for their final hurrah

The parade was cracking and booming its way down the street close by. We caught the first group of Diables (the fire-cracker wielding people dressed in devilish costumes) with the pounding of the Gralla behind them. The frenzied chaos that ensued was not what I had anticipated and we had an absolute blast watching and participating in the mayhem. Be advised, you don’t want to wear good clothes – the sparks might eat through them!

Diablas sit and form a line 
Diables sit and form a line

The celebration is very Catalan and from year to year, Els Diables may have a new feature to reveal. You may see images of the Devil with various demonic effigies, or run into fire-breathing dragons and other mythical creatures. The people believe that it is a rite of exorcism where all the phantoms and evils of the city are revealed only to be cleansed by the ending of the procession.


It was electrifying to be underneath the Diables and their spinning towers of flame, I guess I have to count myself lucky I didn’t lose an eye. My hoodie has a few burn holes in it though… necessary sacrifice I guess!

An imposing presence indeed
An imposing presence indeed

It’s an absolute MUST to see this whenever you come to Catalunya!!

Posted in Travel | Tagged Barcelona, catalan, catalonia, Correfoc, Demon, Diables, Diablo, Festival, Firecracker, Spain, tourism, travel | Leave a comment
June 9, 2013
Spain has great little towns, like Peratallada
Spain has many wonderful towns wedged into the countryside. Here’s something a bit different though, a town built into a rock! It’s called Peratallada, Mar and I stopped off here on our way from a trip to San Miquel. Not to be confused with Sentenil de las Bodegas, in Cádiz in South of Spain, Peratallada is in the North-East of Spain in Catalonia.

20130419_194943

From the first moment you arrive you will behold the beautiful beige stone walls and well-manicured gardens, encompassed by a deep medieval moat, all of which is carved into a gigantic sandstone slab. Then, the first few steps into Peratallada could have you tripping over the worn, eroded pathways which look as though they haven’t changed in hundreds of years. If they don’t catch you, the faithfully preserved, feudal architecture and rural atmosphere will; it’s strikingly beautiful.

20130419_194328

The town was carefully restored in the 1960’s. During restoration, traces of settlement from the Bronze Age were discovered. It is quite an old city and has been documented as early as 1065AD. Peratallada was declared a historic-artistic moment in 1975, and for charmingly obvious reasons.

20130419_194435

Mar and I had a cerveza in a rustic bar, adorned with its original flooring, stairs, in-door water-well and tapestry laden walls. How the atmosphere changes when you know you’re in the very place that hundreds of years of history has taken place! I was intrigued by the stone slab steps that were so rounded and worn; they must have been hundreds of years old. I know you’re probably thinking, come on, steps aren’t that exciting… but to think that hundreds of thousands of footsteps had created the foot-shaped depressions in solid rock was quite moving.

20130419_195125

See for yourself, it’s a great place to stay for night or two if you’re visiting the north of Catalonia. It’s well positioned, only minutes away from the beaches of Costa Brava. If you do come, try to come when there is a special event. The Festa Major is held every year in early August with concerts and activities, and there is a medieval festival in the fall. 

20130419_194407I was actually fortunate enough to see a little more of the town than Mar. Just as we were about to pay for our beers, we realized that neither of us had brought any cash. Off I went jogging up and down the narrow, ragged walkways trying to find the way back to the car, and later I found out that I had taken the longest way possible. Oh and seriously, if you’re not careful you can end up flat on your face! Just look at those puddles!

You will find Peratallada here:


Posted in Travel | Tagged Barcelona, catalonia, Costa Brava, Girona, Medieval, Peratallada, photography, Spain, spanish country, spanish towns, travel | Leave a comment
June 5, 2013
This will confront you – Dolphins to the slaughter


I recently watched a documentary called “The Cove,” the real, hard truth about the Dolphin killings in Japan. It really broke my soul to see it. The sick and twisted method of capturing and killing the Dolphins is unimaginable. I will tell you now, and I bet you didn’t know.

Taiji, Japan. Dolphin migration season. Thousands of Dolphins are passing through a small corridor of ocean next to the Japanese coast. A handful of Japanese fishermen meet in the early morning and set off in a fleet of boats into the ocean, forming a line a few kilometres from the bay. In unison, they lower their long iron poles into the water and smash on them with hammers, creating a sound-shockwave that ripples through the water, forming a sonic barrier between the boats. The barrier forces the migrating Dolphins to swim away from the boats and directly into a small, narrow cove. Hundreds of them, terrified and deafened by what must be a repetitive ear-splitting crack. Swimming for their lives, directly into a trap. Hidden cameras set up by a brave crew of activists allow us to see the water teeming with Dolphins, jumping over one another to get away from the noise. The Japanese fishermen then proceed to wall off the cove with a huge net, preventing any chance of escaping the soon to be slaughter.  

Then, Dolphin trainers arrive from around the world to bid on the healthiest females. They can go for up to $150,000 each. A big profit for the fishermen. What happens to the rest?  Go to 1h 17m 31s



Luckily, Mar fell asleep just before this part of the documentary. I didn’t, and the image of the wounded baby dolphin jumping over the net, limping away and eventually flipping over and dying is burned into my mind to this day. Watch the whole documentary if you have time.

Fun fact: Dolphin meat has some of the highest levels of mercury and is unsafe to eat. Despite this, the meat harvested from the Dolphins was used to feed Japanese children in school for lunch.

37880114

If you’re feeling a bit depressed now, have a look at this next video where “South Park” pokes a bit of fun. They somehow managed to make comedy out of a horrific reality.

 


My question is, how can this happen and continue to happen year in year out? It is totally sickening to think that some people have the impudence to commit such atrocities against the second most intelligent mammals in the world (or perhaps the first?).

It is also a crying shame that the the majority of Japanese have no idea that this is going on due to severe media suppression.